Now that we have a formal statistical
framework, we can interpret our regression
coefficients with respect
to that framework.
Take for example, the intercept.
It's the expected value Y
given that the regressor is 0.
And here I'm simply
plugging into the formula.
Note that the regressor
being equal to zero is often
not of interest in the study.
For example, if the regression
variable is blood pressure, probably
you're not interested in the response for
among people with blood pressure of zero.
However, there is an easy fix for this.
Consider just shifting our
regression variable by a constant a.
And here in this equation,
I've just subtracted off an a here.
Which means I have to add an a beta
1 over here to have done nothing,
to have simply added 0.
Well this is exactly rewriting
the aggression equation
as beta not tilde plus
beta 1 times x minus a.
A new regression line with a new
intercept, the same slope, and
my regressor now shifted by a constant a.
So this goes to show you that if you
shift your regressor by a constant,,
it doesn't change the slope,
however it does change the intercept.
Now the intercept is inter,
interpreted not when x is zero, but
when x is this value
that you shifted it by a.
A very common constant
to due is the average.
Set a equal to the average
of the X variable.
Then your intercept will be
interpreted as the expected
value of the response when the regressor
is at the average value of the Xs.
Let's see if we can figure out
a model-based interpretation of our
regression coefficient.
Now, it's a slope so it must have
an interpretation that is of the form,
the change in Y per unit change in X.
So let's see if we can work with that.
Take the expected value of Y,
given that X takes the value x plus 1,
a one unit increase in X.
And subtract off from the expected value
of Y, given that X takes the value x.
Well, that works out to be beta
naught plus beta 1 times x plus1,
minus beta naught plus beta 1 times x.
Do the arithmetic and
that works out to be beta 1.
So, beta 1 is the expected
change in the response per unit
change in the regression variable.
And that, so it has a nice interpretation,
it's not that different from the regular
interpretation of a line,
just now with the expected value,
the conditional expected
value of the response.
Now, remember, if we shift the X variable,
it doesn't change the slope,
we discussed that on the previous slide.
What if we scaled the regression variable?
And it usually only we're usually scaling
by number, say a, that's positive.
So, what we can do is simply multiply and
divide by a, and we can rewrite our
progression equation as beta naught plus
beta 1 tilde times X times a plus epsilon.
So, we've multiplied X by a and
our regression slope has
now been divided by a.
So in other words, multiple,
multiplication of a regression variable by
a factor a results in dividing
the coefficient by a factor of a.
Let me give you a simple example, so
to hopefully solidify these points.
Imagine if X's height
measured in meters and
Y's weight measured in kilograms,
a pretty simple regression problem.
Then beta 1 is interpreted
in kilograms per meter.
Converting X to centimeters
implies multiplying X by
100 centimeters per meter.
To get beta 1 in the right units,
now we simply divide
it by 100 centimeters per meter to get it,
to, to, to get it back on the right scale.
And here I just wrote a,
a little equation to remind us.